= Introduction =
Modern management of disease outbreaks requires collaboration across jurisdictional and organizational boundaries.  While Epi Info™ (1, 2), CDC’s suite of tools for field collection of disease surveillance and outbreak information, has over 1 million instances worldwide (3), there exists no easy way to exchange data, making analysis of disease surveillance and outbreaks more time consuming for epidemiologists. Furthermore, the problem is made more complex by the proliferation of diverse ad-hoc tools for data collection on multiple platforms, from online surveys to use of spreadsheets. The non-profit organization known as InSTEDD (Innovative Support to Emergencies, Diseases, and Disasters) has been facilitating the development of a set of open source tools to enable data sharing.  Partnering with US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), InSTEDD demonstrated the ability to rapidly, safely, and securely exchange Epi Info™ data in a virtual — or cloud — computing environment (over Internet infrastructure (e.g., Government cloud, Amazon’s EC2/S3, Google cloud/App Engine)). A cloud environment is one in which servers and resources are remotely maintained and their use is 'virtually' available to users, drastically reducing or eliminating the need for capital investment and additional IT support. With support from US CDC, InSTEDD developed a set of clients and refined the technology to demonstrate how sharing information can help improve outcomes during disease outbreak investigation.

InSTEDD’s Mesh4x (http://code.google.com/p/mesh4x) allows for data synchronization among different data sources regardless of technology platform or network connectivity. By including the Mesh4x adaptors for Epi Info™, epidemiologists can make their data available to all users in their distributed project team or across different jurisdictions. In this chapter we demonstrate the utility of Mesh4x to share data over the Internet cloud where an epidemiologist determines which subset of her data are exchanged.  This technology raises the potential to share data (e.g., during outbreak investigation) where multiple epidemiologists are then allowed access to see each other’s data, update the information as the outbreak unfolds, and securely exchange data with one another.

= More Info =

  * http://kasshout.blogspot.com/2008/12/epi-info-and-mesh4x-prototype.html
  * http://kasshout.blogspot.com/2009/05/us-cdc-recommends-mesh4x-to-synchronize.html
  * http://cdc.confex.com/cdc/phin2009/webprogram/Paper20876.html
  * http://www.panafrican-med-journal.com/content/feature/2/6/
  * http://epiinfo.codeplex.com/

= Demo Materials =
  * http://www.slideshare.net/kasshout/epi-info-mesh4x-prototype-presentation
  * http://www.slideshare.net/kasshout/oswego-in-the-cloud-scenario-script

= Demo Software = 
[http://mesh4x.googlecode.com/svn/Mesh4j/trunk/Downloads/TahaDemoVersion/mesh4x.zip Download (36.6MB)]