#summary A step-by-step guide for users to synchronize various data sources using Ektoo client
#labels HowTo,Tutorial,Featured

[http://downloads.instedd.org/mesh4x/ektoo_0_0_2.7z Download]

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

=Introduction=
Ektoo is a desktop client that helps user to synchronize data between various data repositories using mesh4x.

This step-by-step guide shows how a user can use Ektoo client to synchronize data between various data repositories.
=Overview=
Currently mesh4x supports following data repositories:
 # KML
 # Rss 2.0
 # Atom 1.0
 # Microsoft Excel
 # Microsoft Access
 # Google Spreadsheet
 # MySQL and other databases
 # Feed or Amazon S3 (cloud storage)
 # Folder

Ektoo client supports following scenarios of data synchronization currently
 * Microsoft Excel to and/or from
   * Microsoft Excel
   * Google Spreadsheet
   * MySQL
   * Cloud
 * Microsoft Access to and/or from
   * Microsoft Access
   * Cloud
 * Google Spreadsheet to and/or from
   * Google Spreadsheet
   * Microsoft Excel
   * Cloud
 * MySQL to and/or from
   * Microsoft Excel
   * Cloud 

=What you need=
You will need:
 * JRE(Java Runtime Environment) 1.5 or later version installed in your system.
 * Ektoo client installed in your system
 * Data repository

=Steps to Synchronize=
The process consists of:
 # Select data source type from drop down list of source pane.
  * Enter details information to define source data source.
 # Select target data source type from drop down list of target pane.
  * Enter details information to define target data source.
 # Click on "<b>Synchronize Now</b>" button to start synchronization process.

=How-To-Define Data Source=
Defining various data source as source or target is a very simple process. Following sections describe how-to-define a data source of your desire data source type.

==KML==
The process consists of:
 # Select "KML" data type from "<b>Data Source Type</b>" drop down list.
 # Browse KML files and select one that you want to synchronize.

==Rss 2.0==
The process consists of:
 # Select "Rss 2.0" data type from "<b>Data Source Type</b>" drop down list.
 # Browse rss XML files and select one that you want to synchronize.

==Atom 1.0==
The process consists of:
 # Select "Atom 1.0" data type from "<b>Data Source Type</b>" drop down list.
 # Browse atom xml files and select one that you want to synchronize.


==Microsoft Excel==
The process consists of:
 # Select "MS Excel" data type from "<b>Data Source Type</b>" drop down list.
 # Browse Excel files and select one that you want to synchronize.
  * Available list of worksheet will be displayed in "<b>Worksheet</b>" drop down list.
 # Select worksheet from "<b>Worksheet</b>" drop down list.
  * Available list of column will be displayed in "Unique Column" drop down list.
 # Select unique column from "<b>Unique Column</b>" drop down list.

==Google Spreadsheet==
The process consists of:
 # Select "Google Spreadsheet" data type from "<b>Data Source Type</b>" drop down list.
 # Enter user name in "<b>User</b>" text box
 # Enter password in "<b>Password</b>" text box
 # Enter Google Spreadsheet Key in "<b>Key</b>" text box 
 # Click on connection icon
   * After successful connection, available sheets will be displayed in "<b>Worksheet</b>" drop down list
 # Select a worksheet from "<b>Worksheet</b>" drop down list.
  * Available list of column will be displayed in "Unique Column" drop down list.
 # Select unique column from "<b>Unique Column</b>" drop down list.

==Microsoft Access==
The process consists of:
 # Select "MS Access" data type from "<b>Data Source Type</b>" drop down list.
 # Browse Access database files and select one that you want to synchronize.
  * Available list of table will be displayed in "<b>Table</b>" drop down list.
 # Select table from "<b>Table</b>" drop down list.

==MySQL==
The process consists of:
 # Select "MySQL" data type from "<b>Data Source Type</b>" drop down list.
 # Enter user name in "<b>User</b>" text box
 # Enter password in "<b>Password</b>" text box
 # Enter host name and port no in "<b>Host</b>" first and second textvbox.
 # Enter database in "<b>Database</b>" text box
 # Click on connection icon
   * After successful connection, available tables will be displayed in "<b>Table</b>" drop down list 
 # Select table from "<b>Table</b>" drop down list.

==Folder==
The process consists of:
 # Select "Folder" data type from "<b>Data Source Type</b>" drop down list.
 # Browse folders and select one that you want to synchronize.